[IMP] finanace: avatax api integration rewrite (#8997)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/finance/accounting/taxes/avatax.rst

==================
AvaTax integration
==================

Avalara's *AvaTax* is a cloud-based tax software that delivers the latest sales and use
tax calculations to Odoo's sales and invoicing flow when the customer makes a purchase. *AvaTax* tax
calculation is supported in every United Nations charted country. This includes inter-boarder
transactions as well.

.. important::
   Use of AvaTax for your company is only available for companies with locations in the United

>    States and Canada.

Author: The company that is named in the database needs to be in the US / Canada- tax calculations can be throughout the world though.

where the company collects tax, products and service that the company sells and where each is sold,
and finally which customer are exempt from tax, if any.

Follow the Avalara documentation for creating a basic company profile:

#. `Add your company information
   <https://community.avalara.com/support/s/document-item?bundleId=dqa1657870670369_dqa1657870670369&topicId=Add_your_company_information.html&_LANG=enus>`_.
#. `Tell us where you collect and pay tax
   <https://community.avalara.com/support/s/document-item?bundleId=dqa1657870670369_dqa1657870670369&topicId=Tell_us_where_you_collect_and_pay_tax.html&_LANG=enus>`_.
#. `Verify your jurisdictions and activate your company
   <https://community.avalara.com/support/s/document-item?bundleId=dqa1657870670369_dqa1657870670369&topicId=Verify_your_jurisdictions_and_activate_your_company.html&_LANG=enus>`_.
#. `Add other company locations for location-based filing
   <https://community.avalara.com/support/s/document-item?bundleId=dqa1657870670369_dqa1657870670369&topicId=Add_other_company_locations_for_location-based_filing.html&_LANG=enus>`_.
#. `Add a marketplace to your company profile

>    <https://community.avalara.com/support/s/document-item?bundleId=dqa1657870670369_dqa1657870670369&topicId=Add_marketplace_transactions_to_your_company_profile.html&_LANG=enus>`_.

Author: @Felicious 

These are all the specific titles of documents on Avalara's site. I think I'll leave these in. 

Thanks!

Tim

AvaTax and Odoo, then click :guilabel:`Generate license key`.

Should this be an additional license key then, ensure the previous connection can be broken. There
is **only** one license key associated with each of the Avalara sandbox and production accounts.

Copy this key to a safe place. It is strongly encouraged to *download*, *print*, *copy and paste*,
or *write* down the license key for future reference. This key is un-retrievable after leaving this
screen.

Configuration in Odoo
=====================

Before using AvaTax there are some additional configurations in Odoo to ensure tax calculations are
made accurately.

Ensure that the company has data set up in the Odoo database. When the database or company is
initially set up, a country is set. This country sets the fiscal position and helps *AvaTax*
calculate the correct tax rates.

.. seealso::
   Refer to this documentation for more information: :doc:`../../fiscal_localizations`.

Fiscal country
--------------

First, ensure that the :guilabel:`Fiscal Country` is set. To set it, navigate to,
:menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Settings --> Fiscal Localization`.

> :guilabel:`Fiscal Localization` is located under the :guilabel:`Taxes` section.

Author: Good catch!

:guilabel:`City`, :guilabel:`State`, :guilabel:`ZIP`, and :guilabel:`Country` are all updated for
the companies.

Module installation
-------------------

Next, ensure that the Odoo *AvaTax* module is installed. To do so, navigate to :menuselection:`Apps
application --> Search...` bar and then type in `avatax`. Press enter and the following results will
populate:

- :guilabel:`Avatax`: `account_avatax`
- :guilabel:`Avatax for SO`: `account_avatax_sale`
- :guilabel:`Avatax for Subscriptions`: `account_avatax_sale_subscription`
- :guilabel:`Avatax Brazil`: `l10n_br_avatax`
- :guilabel:`Avatax for SOs in Brazil`: `l10n_br_avatax_sale`
- :guilabel:`Account Avatax - Ecommerce`: `website_sale_account_avatax`
- :guilabel:`Account AvaTax - Ecommerce - Delivery`: `website_sale_delivery_avatax`

Click on the :guilabel:`Install` button on the module labeled :guilabel:`Avatax`: `account_avatax`.
This will install the following modules:

- :guilabel:`Avatax`: `account_avatax`
- :guilabel:`Avatax for SO`: `account_avatax_sale`
- :guilabel:`Account Avatax - Ecommerce`: `website_sale_account_avatax`

Should *AvaTax* be needed for Odoo *Subscriptions* or for delivery tax in Odoo *Ecommerce*, then

> install those modules individually by clicking on :guilabel:`Install`. Additionally, in Brazil two
> separate *AvaTax* modules need to be installed. See the list above for these modules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
install those modules individually by clicking on :guilabel:`Install`. Additionally, in Brazil, two
separate *AvaTax* modules need to be installed. See the list above for these modules.
```

.. _avatax/credentials:

Odoo AvaTax settings
====================

To integrate the *AvaTax* :abbr:`API (application programming interface)` with Odoo, go to

> :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Settings --> Taxes --> AvaTax` section. This is
> where the *AvaTax* some configurations will be made and the credentials will be entered in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Settings` section. The :guilabel:`AvaTax` fields in the :guilabel:`Taxes` section is
where the *AvaTax* configurations are made and the credentials will be entered in.
```

.. image:: avatax/avatax-configuration-settings.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Configure Avatax settings

Prerequisites
-------------

Before the credentials are entered in, tick the checkbox to the right of the :guilabel:`AvaTax`

> title to activate the feature.

Reviewer: I believe the checkbox to the right is for enabling another feature?

![image](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/assets/23611711/35621655-210e-4536-97c8-b93140685121)

Author: Good catch

Next, select the :guilabel:`Environment` that the company wishes to use AvaTax in. It can either be
:guilabel:`Sandbox` or :guilabel:`Production`.

.. seealso::
   For help determining which *AvaTax* environment to use (either :guilabel:`Production` or
   :guilabel:`Sandbox`), visit: `Sandbox vs Production environments
   <https://knowledge.avalara.com/bundle/fzc1692293626742/page/sandbox-vs-production.html>`_.

Credentials
-----------

Now, the credentials can be entered in. The AvaTax :guilabel:`Account ID` will be entered in the
:guilabel:`API ID` field and the :guilabel:`License Key` will be entered in the :guilabel:`API Key`
field.

> .. tip::

Reviewer: that's a helpful tip!

   The :guilabel:`Account ID` can be found by logging into the AvaTax portal (`sandbox
   <https://sandbox.admin.avalara.com/>`_ or `production <https://admin.avalara.com/>`_). In the
   upper-right corner are the initials of the user and :guilabel:`Account`, click into this icon.
   The :guilabel:`Account ID` is listed first.

   To access the :guilabel:`License Key` see this documentation:
   :ref:`avatax/create_avalara_credentials`.

> 

Reviewer: What do ppl need to enter for the "Company Code" field?

Transaction options
-------------------

There are two transactional settings that can be configured: :guilabel:`Use UPC Commit` and
:guilabel:`Commit Transactions`.

If the checkbox next to :guilabel:`Use UPC codes` is ticked then, the transactions will use
Universal Product Codes (UPC), instead of custom defined codes in Avalara. Consult a certified
public accountant (CPA) for specific guidance.

Should the :guilabel:`Commit Transactions` checkbox be ticked, then, the transactions in the Odoo
database will be committed for reporting in AvaTax.

Address validation
------------------

.. important::
   The :guilabel:`Address validation` feature only works with partners in North America.

> Additionally, tick the checkbox next to the :guilabel:`Address validation` field.

Reviewer: You did a wonderful job explaining the previous settings. It would be really helpful if you could do the same here. In a nutshell, could you tell me what the Address Validation field does? Thanks!

```suggestion
Additionally, tick the checkbox next to the :guilabel:`Address Validation` field.
```

.. important::

>    For accurate tax calculations it is best practice to enter a complete address for the contacts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   For accurate tax calculations, it is best practice to enter a complete address for the contacts
```

   saved in the database. However, AvaTax can still function by implementing a best effort attempt
   using only the :guilabel:`Country`, :guilabel:`State`, and :guilabel:`Zip code`. These are the
   three minimum required fields.

:guilabel:`Save` the settings to implement the configuration.

.. tip::
   Manually :guilabel:`Validate` the address by navigating to :menuselection:`Contacts app` and
   selecting a contact. Now that the AvaTax module have been configured on the database, a
   :guilabel:`Validate` button appears directly below the :guilabel:`Address`.

   Click :guilabel:`Validate` and a pop-up window appears with a :guilabel:`Validated Address` and
   :guilabel:`Original Address` listed. If the :guilabel:`Validated Address` is the correct mailing
   address for tax purposes click :guilabel:`Save Validated`.

   .. image:: avatax/validate-address.png
      :align: center

>       :alt: Validate address pop-up window in Odoo with save validated button and validated address

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      :alt: Validate address pop-up window in Odoo with "Save Validated" button and "Validated Address"
```

            highlighted.

.. warning::
   All previously entered addresses for contacts in the Odoo database will need to be validated
   using the manually validate process outlined above. Addresses are not automatically validated if
   they were entered previously. This only occurs upon tax calculation.

Sync parameters
---------------

Upon finishing the configuration and settings of the AvaTax section click the :guilabel:`Sync

> Parameters`. This action will synchronize the exemption codes from AvaTax.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Parameters` button. This action will synchronize the exemption codes from AvaTax.
```

.. _avatax/fiscal_positions:

Fiscal position
===============

> Next, navigate to :menuselection:`Configuration --> Accounting --> Fiscal Positions`. A new

Reviewer: Please verify with Lara, but I think we use `Accounting: Fiscal Positions` when Fiscal Positions is the button to click and `Accounting` is the section title of the menu option.
```suggestion
Next, navigate to :menuselection:`Accounting app --> Configuration --> Accounting: Fiscal Positions`. A new
```
![image](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/assets/23611711/7a292dbe-1421-4168-8c56-e80157248825)

> :guilabel:`Fiscal Position` is listed called :guilabel:`Automatic Tax Mapping (AvaTax)`. Click on
> this :guilabel:`Fiscal Position`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Fiscal Position` is listed called :guilabel:`Automatic Tax Mapping (AvaTax)`. Click
it to open AvaTax's fiscal position configuration page.
```

> Ensure that the :guilabel:`Use AvaTax API` checkbox is ticked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here, ensure that the :guilabel:`Use AvaTax API` checkbox is ticked.
```

Optionally, tick the checkbox next to the field labeled: :guilabel:`Detect Automatically`. Should
this option be ticked, then, Odoo will automatically apply this :guilabel:`Fiscal Position` for
transactions in Odoo.

> Specific parameters, such as :guilabel:`VAT required`, :guilabel:`Foreign Tax ID`,
> :guilabel:`Country Group`, :guilabel:`Country`, :guilabel:`Federal States`, or :guilabel:`Zip Range`
> can be specified below this checkbox.

Reviewer: Do we need to fill these fields out to do something?
```suggestion
Enabling :guilabel:`Detect Automatically` also makes specific parameters, such as :guilabel:`VAT required`, :guilabel:`Foreign Tax ID`,
:guilabel:`Country Group`, :guilabel:`Country`, :guilabel:`Federal States`, or :guilabel:`Zip Range` appear.
```

.. warning::
   Should the :guilabel:`Detect Automatically` checkbox not be ticked, then each *Customer* will
   need to have the :guilabel:`Fiscal Position` set on their :guilabel:`Sales and Purchase` tab of
   the contact record. To do so, navigate to :menuselection:`Sales app --> Order --> Customers` or
   :menuselection:`Contacts app --> Contacts`. Then select and customer or contact to set the fiscal
   position on.

   Navigate to the :guilabel:`Sales and Purchase` tab and down to the section labeled
   :guilabel:`Fiscal Position`. Set the :guilabel:`Fiscal Position` field to the fiscal position
   for the customer.

   .. seealso::

>       - :doc:`fiscal_positions`

Reviewer: only need a bullet point when there's more than one link in the seealso admonition (:
```suggestion
      :doc:`fiscal_positions`
```

AvaTax accounts
---------------

Upon selecting the checkbox option for :guilabel:`Use AvaTax API` a new :guilabel:`AvaTax` tab
appears. Click into this tab to reveal two different settings.

The first setting is the :guilabel:`AvaTax Invoice Account`, while the second is, :guilabel:`AvaTax
Refund Account`. Ensure both accounts are set for smooth end-of-year record keeping. Consult a
certified public accountant (CPA) for specific guidance on setting both accounts.

Click :guilabel:`Save` to implement the changes.

Tax mapping
===========

The AvaTax integration is available on Sale Orders and Invoices with the included AvaTax fiscal
position.

Product category mapping
------------------------

Before using the integration, specify an :guilabel:`Avatax Category` on the product categories.
Navigate to :menuselection:`Inventory --> Configuration --> Product Categories`. Select the product

> category to add the :guilabel:`AvaTax Category` to. Finally next to the field labeled
> :guilabel:`AvaTax Category`, click the drop-down menu and select a category, or :guilabel:`Search

Reviewer: ```suggestion
category to add the :guilabel:`AvaTax Category` to. In the
:guilabel:`AvaTax Category` field, select a category from the drop-down menu, or :guilabel:`Search
```

> More...` to find one that isn't connected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
More...` to open the complete list of options.
```

.. image:: avatax/avatax-category.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Specify AvaTax Category on products

Product mapping
---------------

> AvaTax Categories may be overridden or set on individual products as well. To set the

Reviewer: In a note admonition, maybe we can say something like:

If both the product and its category have an AvaTax Category set, the product's AvaTax Category takes precedence.
```suggestion
AvaTax Categories may be set on individual products as well. To set the
```

tax calculation is supported in every United Nations charted country, including inter-border
transactions.

.. important::
   AvaTax is only available for databases/companies with locations in the United States and Canada.

*AvaTax* accounts for location-based tax rates for each state, county and city. It improves
remittance accuracy by paying close attention to laws, rules, jurisdiction boundaries, and special
circumstances like tax holidays and product exemptions. Companies who integrate with *AvaTax* can
maintain control of tax-calculations in-house with this simple :abbr:`API (application programming
interface)` integration.

Avalara provides the following services:

- AvaTax (sales and use tax calculations)
- Avalara returns (prepare, file, and remit sales tax returns)
- Avalara Exemption Certificate Management (collect, store, and manage documents)
- Avalara tax Research (Get tax research in plain language)
- Avalara Business License Services (project based assistance to help confront challenges to their
  license operations)

.. important::
   Some limitations exist in Odoo while using AvaTax for tax calculation:

>    - AvaTax is not supported in Odoo *Point of Sale*, because a dynamic tax calculation model is
>      excessive for transactions within a single delivery address, such as stores or restaurants.
> 
>    - AvaTax and Odoo use the company address and not the warehouse address.

Reviewer 2: No need for a blank line between bullet points of the same level :)
```suggestion
   - AvaTax is not supported in Odoo *Point of Sale*, because a dynamic tax calculation model is
     excessive for transactions within a single delivery address, such as stores or restaurants.
   - AvaTax and Odoo use the company address and not the warehouse address.
```

   - Exercise tax is not supported. This includes tabacco/vape taxes, fuel taxes, and other specific
     industries.

.. seealso::
   Avalara's support documents: `About AvaTax
   <https://community.avalara.com/support/s/document-item?language=en_US&bundleId=dqa1657870670369_dqa1657870670369&topicId=About_AvaTax.html&_LANG=enus>`_

Set up on AvaTax (onboarding)
=============================

To use *AvaTax*, an account with Avalara is required for the setup. If one has not been set up yet,
connect with Avalara to purchase a license: `Avalara: Let's Talk

> <https://www.avalara.com/us/en/get-started.html>`_

Reviewer 2: Add a period
```suggestion
<https://www.avalara.com/us/en/get-started.html>`_.
```

<https://admin.avalara.com/>`_ environment. This will depend on which type of Avalara account the
company would like to integrate.

.. seealso::
   `Sandbox vs production environments in Avalara
   <https://knowledge.avalara.com/bundle/fzc1692293626742/page/sandbox-vs-production.html>`_.

Log in to create the :guilabel:`License Key`. Go to :menuselection:`Settings --> License and API
Keys`. Click :guilabel:`Generate License Key`.

.. note::
   A warning will display stating: `If your business app is connected to Avalara solutions, the
   connection will be broken until you update the app with the new license key. This action cannot
   be undone.`

   Generating a new license key breaks the connection with existing business apps using the *AvaTax*
   integration. Ensure to update these apps with the new license key.

Should this be the first :abbr:`API (application programming interface)` integration being made with
AvaTax and Odoo, then click :guilabel:`Generate license key`.

Should this be an additional license key then, ensure the previous connection can be broken. There
is **only** one license key associated with each of the Avalara sandbox and production accounts.

> Copy this key to a safe place. It is strongly encouraged to *download*, *print*, *copy and paste*,
> or *write* down the license key for future reference. This key cannot be retrieved after leaving
> this screen.

Reviewer 2: Suggesting to summarize this with the term "backup"
```suggestion
Copy this key to a safe place. It is **strongly encouraged** to backup the license key for future
reference. This key cannot be retrieved after leaving this screen.
```

Configuration in Odoo
=====================

Before using AvaTax there are some additional configurations in Odoo to ensure tax calculations are
made accurately.

Verify that the Odoo database contains necessary data. The country initially set up in the database
determines the fiscal position and aids AvaTax in calculating accurate tax rates.

Fiscal country
--------------

> 

Reviewer 2: Remove extra line
```suggestion
```

To set the :guilabel:`Fiscal Country`, navigate to :menuselection:`Accounting app --> Configuration
--> Settings`.

.. seealso::

>    - :doc:`../../fiscal_localizations`

Reviewer 2: No need to bullet a single item
```suggestion
   :doc:`../../fiscal_localizations`
```

Under the :guilabel:`Taxes` section, set the :guilabel:`Fiscal Country` feature to :guilabel:`United
States` or :guilabel:`Canada`.

Company settings
----------------

All companies operating under the Odoo database should have a full and complete address listed in

> the settings. Navigate to :menuselection:`Settings App, and under the :guilabel:`Companies` section,
> ensure there is only one company operating the Odoo database. Click :guilabel:`Update Info` to open
> a separate page to update company details.

Reviewer 2: Missing closing \` on menuselection, and lowercase "app"
```suggestion
the settings. Navigate to :menuselection:`Settings app`, and under the :guilabel:`Companies`
section, ensure there is only one company operating the Odoo database. Click :guilabel:`Update Info`
to open a separate page to update company details.
```

Module installation
-------------------

Next, ensure that the Odoo *AvaTax* module is installed. To do so, navigate to :menuselection:`Apps
application. In the :guilabel:`Search...` bar, type in `avatax`. Press enter and the following
results populate:

- :guilabel:`Avatax`: `account_avatax`
- :guilabel:`Avatax for SO`: `account_avatax_sale`
- :guilabel:`Avatax for Subscriptions`: `account_avatax_sale_subscription`
- :guilabel:`Avatax Brazil`: `l10n_br_avatax`
- :guilabel:`Avatax for SOs in Brazil`: `l10n_br_avatax_sale`
- :guilabel:`Account Avatax - Ecommerce`: `website_sale_account_avatax`
- :guilabel:`Account AvaTax - Ecommerce - Delivery`: `website_sale_delivery_avatax`

Click on the :guilabel:`Install` button on the module labeled :guilabel:`Avatax`: `account_avatax`.
This will install the following modules:

- :guilabel:`Avatax`: `account_avatax`
- :guilabel:`Avatax for SO`: `account_avatax_sale`
- :guilabel:`Account Avatax - Ecommerce`: `website_sale_account_avatax`

Should *AvaTax* be needed for Odoo *Subscriptions* or for delivery tax in Odoo *Ecommerce*, then
install those modules individually by clicking on :guilabel:`Install`. Additionally, in Brazil, two

> separate *AvaTax* modules need to be installed. See the list above for these modules.

Reviewer 2: Suggestion to format this modules list similar to how the Fiscal Localizations do it, take Colombia for example:
https://www.odoo.com/documentation/master/applications/finance/fiscal_localizations/colombia.html#modules-installation

To integrate the *AvaTax* :abbr:`API (application programming interface)` with Odoo, go to
:menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Settings` section. The :guilabel:`AvaTax` fields in
the :guilabel:`Taxes` section is where the *AvaTax* configurations are made and the credentials are
entered in.

.. image:: avatax/avatax-configuration-settings.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Configure Avatax settings

Prerequisites
-------------

First, select the :guilabel:`Environment` that the company wishes to use AvaTax in. It can either be
:guilabel:`Sandbox` or :guilabel:`Production`.

.. seealso::
   For help determining which *AvaTax* environment to use (either :guilabel:`Production` or
   :guilabel:`Sandbox`), visit: `Sandbox vs Production environments
   <https://knowledge.avalara.com/bundle/fzc1692293626742/page/sandbox-vs-production.html>`_.

Credentials
-----------

Now, the credentials can be entered in. The AvaTax :guilabel:`Account ID` will be entered in the
:guilabel:`API ID` field and the :guilabel:`License Key` will be entered in the :guilabel:`API Key`
field.

.. important::
   The :guilabel:`Account ID` can be found by logging into the AvaTax portal (`sandbox

>    <https://sandbox.admin.avalara.com/>`_ or `production <https://admin.avalara.com/>`_). In the
>    upper-right corner are the initials of the user and :guilabel:`Account`, click into this icon.

Reviewer 2: Suggestion to reword this
```suggestion
   <https://sandbox.admin.avalara.com/>`_ or `production <https://admin.avalara.com/>`_). In the
   upper-right corner, click on the initials of the user and :guilabel:`Account`.
```

   The :guilabel:`Account ID` is listed first.

   To access the :guilabel:`License Key` see this documentation:
   :ref:`avatax/create_avalara_credentials`.

For the :guilabel:`Company Code` field enter the Avalara company code for the company being
configured. Avalara interprets this as `DEFAULT` if it is not set. The :guilabel:`Company Code` can
be accessed in the Avalara management portal.

First, log into the AvaTax portal (`sandbox
<https://sandbox.admin.avalara.com/>`_ or `production <https://admin.avalara.com/>`_). Then,
navigate to :menuselection:`Settings --> Manage Companies`. The :guilabel:`Company Code` value is
located in the row of the :guilabel:`Company` in the :guilabel:`Company Code` column.

.. image:: avatax/company-code.png
   :align: center

>    :alt: /AvaTax company code highlighted on the company details page.

Reviewer 2: Remove slash
```suggestion
   :alt: AvaTax company code highlighted on the company details page.
```

.. important::
   The :guilabel:`Address Validation` feature only works with partners in North America.

Additionally, tick the checkbox next to the :guilabel:`Address validation` field.

.. important::
   For accurate tax calculations, it is best practice to enter a complete address for the contacts
   saved in the database. However, AvaTax can still function by implementing a best effort attempt
   using only the :guilabel:`Country`, :guilabel:`State`, and :guilabel:`Zip code`. These are the
   three minimum required fields.

:guilabel:`Save` the settings to implement the configuration.

.. tip::
   Manually :guilabel:`Validate` the address by navigating to :menuselection:`Contacts app` and
   selecting a contact. Now that the AvaTax module have been configured on the database, a
   :guilabel:`Validate` button appears directly below the :guilabel:`Address`.

   Click :guilabel:`Validate` and a pop-up window appears with a :guilabel:`Validated Address` and
   :guilabel:`Original Address` listed. If the :guilabel:`Validated Address` is the correct mailing
   address for tax purposes click :guilabel:`Save Validated`.

   .. image:: avatax/validate-address.png
      :align: center

>       :alt: Validate address pop-up window in Odoo with "Save Validated" button and "Validated Address"
>             highlighted.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      :alt: Validate address pop-up window in Odoo with "Save Validated" button and "Validated
            Address" highlighted.
```

Parameters` button. This action will synchronize the exemption codes from AvaTax.

.. _avatax/fiscal_positions:

Fiscal position
===============

Next, navigate to :menuselection:`Accounting app --> Configuration --> Accounting: Fiscal
Positions`. A :guilabel:`Fiscal Position` is listed called :guilabel:`Automatic Tax Mapping
(AvaTax)`. Click it to open AvaTax's fiscal position configuration page.

Here, ensure that the :guilabel:`Use AvaTax API` checkbox is ticked.

Optionally, tick the checkbox next to the field labeled: :guilabel:`Detect Automatically`. Should
this option be ticked, then, Odoo will automatically apply this :guilabel:`Fiscal Position` for
transactions in Odoo.

Enabling :guilabel:`Detect Automatically` also makes specific parameters, such as :guilabel:`VAT
required`, :guilabel:`Foreign Tax ID`, :guilabel:`Country Group`, :guilabel:`Country`,
:guilabel:`Federal States`, or :guilabel:`Zip Range` appear. Filling this parameters will filter the
:guilabel:`Fiscal Position` usage. Leaving them blank will ensure all calculations are made using
this :guilabel:`Fiscal Position`.

.. warning::

>    Should the :guilabel:`Detect Automatically` checkbox not be ticked, then each *Customer* will

Reviewer 2: No need for formatting on customer
```suggestion
   Should the :guilabel:`Detect Automatically` checkbox not be ticked, then each customer will
```

   need to have the :guilabel:`Fiscal Position` set on their :guilabel:`Sales and Purchase` tab of
   the contact record. To do so, navigate to :menuselection:`Sales app --> Order --> Customers` or
   :menuselection:`Contacts app --> Contacts`. Then select and customer or contact to set the fiscal
   position on.

   Navigate to the :guilabel:`Sales and Purchase` tab and down to the section labeled
   :guilabel:`Fiscal Position`. Set the :guilabel:`Fiscal Position` field to the fiscal position
   for the customer.

>    .. seealso::
>       :doc:`fiscal_positions`

Reviewer 2: Please move the seealso:: out of the warning admonition :)
```suggestion
.. seealso::
   :doc:`fiscal_positions`
```

AvaTax accounts
---------------

Upon selecting the checkbox option for :guilabel:`Use AvaTax API` a new :guilabel:`AvaTax` tab
appears. Click into this tab to reveal two different settings.

The first setting is the :guilabel:`AvaTax Invoice Account`, while the second is, :guilabel:`AvaTax
Refund Account`. Ensure both accounts are set for smooth end-of-year record keeping. Consult a
certified public accountant (CPA) for specific guidance on setting both accounts.

Click :guilabel:`Save` to implement the changes.

Tax mapping
===========

> The AvaTax integration is available on Sale Orders and Invoices with the included AvaTax fiscal
> position.

Reviewer 2: No need to capitalize SO and invoices
```suggestion
The AvaTax integration is available on sale orders and invoices with the included AvaTax fiscal
```

Product category mapping
------------------------

Before using the integration, specify an :guilabel:`Avatax Category` on the product categories.
Navigate to :menuselection:`Inventory --> Configuration --> Product Categories`. Select the product
category to add the :guilabel:`AvaTax Category` to. In the :guilabel:`AvaTax Category` field, select
a category from the drop-down menu, or :guilabel:`Search More...` to open the complete list of
options.

.. image:: avatax/avatax-category.png
   :align: center

>    :alt: Specify AvaTax Category on products

Reviewer 2: Please make sure each alt tag has a period
```suggestion
   :alt: Specify AvaTax Category on products.
```

Product mapping
---------------

AvaTax Categories may be set on individual products as well. To set the :guilabel:`Avatax Category`
navigate to :menuselection:`Inventory app --> Products --> Products`. Select the product to add the

> :guilabel:`Avatax Category` to. Under the :guilabel:`General Information` tab, on the far-right, is\
> a selector field labeled: :guilabel:`Avatax Category`. Finally, click the drop-down menu and select

Reviewer 2: Remove slash
```suggestion
:guilabel:`Avatax Category` to. Under the :guilabel:`General Information` tab, on the far-right, is
a selector field labeled: :guilabel:`Avatax Category`. Finally, click the drop-down menu and select
```

results populate:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 25 25 50

   * - Name
     - Technical name
     - Description
   * - :guilabel:`Avatax`
     - `account_avatax`
     - Default *AvaTax* module. This module adds the base *AvaTax* features for tax calculation.
   * - :guilabel:`Avatax for SO`
     - `account_avatax_sale`
     - Includes the information needed for tax calculation on sales orders in Odoo.
   * - :guilabel:`Avatax for Subscriptions`
     - `account_avatax_sale_subscription`
     - This module includes the features required for tax calculation on subscriptions in Odoo.
   * - :guilabel:`Avatax Brazil`
     - `l10n_br_avatax`
     - Includes information for tax calculation in the Brazil localization.
   * - :guilabel:`Avatax for SOs in Brazil`
     - `l10n_br_avatax_sale`
     - This module includes the features required for tax calculation for sales orders in the Brazil
       localization.
   * - :guilabel:`Account Avatax - Ecommerce`
     - `website_sale_account_avatax`
     - Includes tax calculation features for the checkout process on Odoo eCommerce.
   * - :guilabel:`Account AvaTax - Ecommerce - Delivery`
     - `website_sale_delivery_avatax`

>      - Includes tax calculation features for the delivery process on Odoo eCommerce.

Author: Not all are necessary, but depending on the company's setup-- different Avatax modules are needed.

Click on the :guilabel:`Install` button on the module labeled :guilabel:`Avatax`: `account_avatax`.
This will install the following modules:

- :guilabel:`Avatax`: `account_avatax`
- :guilabel:`Avatax for SO`: `account_avatax_sale`
- :guilabel:`Account Avatax - Ecommerce`: `website_sale_account_avatax`

Should *AvaTax* be needed for Odoo *Subscriptions* or for delivery tax in Odoo *Ecommerce*, then
install those modules individually by clicking on :guilabel:`Install`. Additionally, in Brazil, two
separate *AvaTax* modules need to be installed. See the list above for these modules.

.. _avatax/credentials:

Odoo AvaTax settings
====================

To integrate the *AvaTax* :abbr:`API (application programming interface)` with Odoo, go to
:menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Settings` section. The :guilabel:`AvaTax` fields in
the :guilabel:`Taxes` section is where the *AvaTax* configurations are made and the credentials are
entered in.

.. image:: avatax/avatax-configuration-settings.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Configure Avatax settings

Prerequisites
-------------

First, select the :guilabel:`Environment` that the company wishes to use AvaTax in. It can either be

> :guilabel:`Sandbox` or :guilabel:`Production`.

Author: This is required for the setup in Odoo- I think it's necessary to document it here as well. There is a drop-down menu for either production or sandbox

.. seealso::
   For help determining which *AvaTax* environment to use (either :guilabel:`Production` or
   :guilabel:`Sandbox`), visit: `Sandbox vs Production environments
   <https://knowledge.avalara.com/bundle/fzc1692293626742/page/sandbox-vs-production.html>`_.

Credentials
-----------

Now, the credentials can be entered in. The AvaTax :guilabel:`Account ID` will be entered in the
:guilabel:`API ID` field and the :guilabel:`License Key` will be entered in the :guilabel:`API Key`
field.

.. important::
   The :guilabel:`Account ID` can be found by logging into the AvaTax portal (`sandbox
   <https://sandbox.admin.avalara.com/>`_ or `production <https://admin.avalara.com/>`_). In the
   upper-right corner, click on the initials of the user and :guilabel:`Account`. The
   :guilabel:`Account ID` is listed first.

   To access the :guilabel:`License Key` see this documentation:
   :ref:`avatax/create_avalara_credentials`.

> 

Author: This is an anchor so the client can jump to the section on the license setting.

For the :guilabel:`Company Code` field enter the Avalara company code for the company being
configured. Avalara interprets this as `DEFAULT` if it is not set. The :guilabel:`Company Code` can
be accessed in the Avalara management portal.

First, log into the AvaTax portal (`sandbox
<https://sandbox.admin.avalara.com/>`_ or `production <https://admin.avalara.com/>`_). Then,
navigate to :menuselection:`Settings --> Manage Companies`. The :guilabel:`Company Code` value is
located in the row of the :guilabel:`Company` in the :guilabel:`Company Code` column.

.. image:: avatax/company-code.png
   :align: center
   :alt: AvaTax company code highlighted on the company details page.

Transaction options
-------------------

There are two transactional settings that can be configured: :guilabel:`Use UPC Commit` and
:guilabel:`Commit Transactions`.

If the checkbox next to :guilabel:`Use UPC codes` is ticked then, the transactions will use
Universal Product Codes (UPC), instead of custom defined codes in Avalara. Consult a certified
public accountant (CPA) for specific guidance.

Should the :guilabel:`Commit Transactions` checkbox be ticked, then, the transactions in the Odoo

> database will be committed for reporting in AvaTax.

Author: This is a sub-section of the Odoo Avatax settings, I will add a sentence explaining where to go

:show-content:

==================
AvaTax integration
==================

Avalara's *AvaTax* is a cloud-based tax software. Integrating AvaTax with Odoo provides real-time
and region-specific tax calculations when users sell, purchase, and invoice items in Odoo. *AvaTax*
tax calculation is supported with every United Nations charted country, including inter-border
transactions.

.. important::
   AvaTax is only available for integration with databases/companies that have locations in the
   United States and Canada. This means the fiscal position/country of a database can only be set to
   the United States or Canada. Reference this documentation: :ref:`avatax/fiscal_country`.

*AvaTax* accounts for location-based tax rates for each state, county and city. It improves
remittance accuracy by paying close attention to laws, rules, jurisdiction boundaries, and special

> circumstances like tax holidays and product exemptions. Companies who integrate with *AvaTax* can

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
circumstances (like, tax holidays and product exemptions). Companies who integrate with *AvaTax* can
```

maintain control of tax-calculations in-house with this simple :abbr:`API (application programming
interface)` integration.

.. important::

>    Some limitations exist in Odoo while using AvaTax for tax calculation:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   Some limitations exist in Odoo while using *AvaTax* for tax calculation:
```

>    - AvaTax is not supported in Odoo *Point of Sale*, because a dynamic tax calculation model is

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   - *AvaTax* is **not** supported in Odoo's *Point of Sale* app, because a dynamic tax calculation model is
```

     excessive for transactions within a single delivery address, such as stores or restaurants.

>    - AvaTax and Odoo use the company address and not the warehouse address.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   - *AvaTax* and Odoo use the company address and **not** the warehouse address.
```

>    - Exercise tax is not supported. This includes tabacco/vape taxes, fuel taxes, and other specific

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   - Exercise tax is **not** supported. This includes tobacco/vape taxes, fuel taxes, and other specific
```

     industries.

.. seealso::
   Avalara's support documents: `About AvaTax
   <https://community.avalara.com/support/s/document-item?language=en_US&bundleId=dqa1657870670369_dqa1657870670369&topicId=About_AvaTax.html&_LANG=enus>`_

Set up on AvaTax
================

To use *AvaTax*, an account with Avalara is required for the setup. If one has not been set up yet,
connect with Avalara to purchase a license: `Avalara: Let's Talk
<https://www.avalara.com/us/en/get-started.html>`_.

.. tip::

>    Upon account setup, take note of the AvaTax :guilabel:`Account ID`. This will be needed in the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   Upon account setup, take note of the *AvaTax* :guilabel:`Account ID`. This will be needed in the
```

>    :ref:`Odoo setup <avatax/credentials>`. In Odoo this number is the :guilabel:`API ID`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   :ref:`Odoo setup <avatax/credentials>`. In Odoo, this number is the :guilabel:`API ID`.
```

Then, `create a basic company profile
<https://community.avalara.com/support/s/document-item?bundleId=dqa1657870670369_dqa1657870670369&topicId=Create_a_Basic_company_profile.html&_LANG=enus>`_.

Create basic company profile
----------------------------

Collect essential business details for the next step: locations where tax is collected,

> products/services sold and their sales locations, and customer tax exemptions, if applicable. Follow

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
products/services sold (and their sales locations), and customer tax exemptions, if applicable. Follow
```

the Avalara documentation for creating a basic company profile:

> #. `Add your company information

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#. `Add company information
```

   <https://community.avalara.com/support/s/document-item?bundleId=dqa1657870670369_dqa1657870670369&topicId=Add_your_company_information.html&_LANG=enus>`_.

> #. `Tell us where you collect and pay tax

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#. `Tell us where the company collects and pays tax
```

   <https://community.avalara.com/support/s/document-item?bundleId=dqa1657870670369_dqa1657870670369&topicId=Tell_us_where_you_collect_and_pay_tax.html&_LANG=enus>`_.

> #. `Verify your jurisdictions and activate your company

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#. `Verify jurisdictions and activate the company
```

   <https://community.avalara.com/support/s/document-item?bundleId=dqa1657870670369_dqa1657870670369&topicId=Verify_your_jurisdictions_and_activate_your_company.html&_LANG=enus>`_.
#. `Add other company locations for location-based filing
   <https://community.avalara.com/support/s/document-item?bundleId=dqa1657870670369_dqa1657870670369&topicId=Add_other_company_locations_for_location-based_filing.html&_LANG=enus>`_.

> #. `Add a marketplace to your company profile

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#. `Add a marketplace to the company profile
```

   <https://community.avalara.com/support/s/document-item?bundleId=dqa1657870670369_dqa1657870670369&topicId=Add_marketplace_transactions_to_your_company_profile.html&_LANG=enus>`_.

.. _avatax/create_avalara_credentials:

Connect to AvaTax
-----------------

> After creating the basic company profile in Avalara, connect to AvaTax. This step links Odoo and

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After creating the basic company profile in Avalara, connect to *AvaTax*. This step links Odoo and
```

> AvaTax bidirectionally.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
*AvaTax* bidirectionally.
```

Navigate to either Avalara's `sandbox <https://sandbox.admin.avalara.com/>`_ or `production
<https://admin.avalara.com/>`_ environment. This will depend on which type of Avalara account the
company would like to integrate.

.. seealso::
   `Sandbox vs production environments in Avalara
   <https://knowledge.avalara.com/bundle/fzc1692293626742/page/sandbox-vs-production.html>`_.

Log in to create the :guilabel:`License Key`. Go to :menuselection:`Settings --> License and API
Keys`. Click :guilabel:`Generate License Key`.

.. note::

>    A warning will display stating: `If your business app is connected to Avalara solutions, the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   A warning appears, stating: `If your business app is connected to Avalara solutions, the
```

   connection will be broken until you update the app with the new license key. This action cannot
   be undone.`

   Generating a new license key breaks the connection with existing business apps using the *AvaTax*

>    integration. Ensure to update these apps with the new license key.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   integration. Make sure to update these apps with the new license key.
```

> Should this be the first :abbr:`API (application programming interface)` integration being made with

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If this will be the first :abbr:`API (application programming interface)` integration being made with
```

> AvaTax and Odoo, then click :guilabel:`Generate license key`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
*AvaTax* and Odoo, then click :guilabel:`Generate license key`.
```

> Should this be an additional license key then, ensure the previous connection can be broken. There

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If this is an additional license key, ensure the previous connection can be broken. There
```

is **only** one license key associated with each of the Avalara sandbox and production accounts.

.. important::
   Copy this key to a safe place. It is **strongly encouraged** to backup the license key for future
   reference. This key cannot be retrieved after leaving this screen.

> Configuration in Odoo

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Odoo Configuration
```

=====================

> Before using AvaTax there are some additional configurations in Odoo to ensure tax calculations are

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Before using *AvaTax*, there are some additional configurations in Odoo to ensure tax calculations are
```

made accurately.

Verify that the Odoo database contains necessary data. The country initially set up in the database

> determines the fiscal position and aids AvaTax in calculating accurate tax rates.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
determines the fiscal position, and aids *AvaTax* in calculating accurate tax rates.
```

.. _avatax/fiscal_country:

Fiscal country
--------------

To set the :guilabel:`Fiscal Country`, navigate to :menuselection:`Accounting app --> Configuration
--> Settings`.

.. seealso::
   :doc:`../../fiscal_localizations`

Under the :guilabel:`Taxes` section, set the :guilabel:`Fiscal Country` feature to :guilabel:`United

> States` or :guilabel:`Canada`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
States` or :guilabel:`Canada`. Then, click :guilabel:`Save`.
```

Company settings
----------------

All companies operating under the Odoo database should have a full and complete address listed in

> the settings. Navigate to :menuselection:`Settings app`, and under the :guilabel:`Companies`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
the settings. Navigate to the :menuselection:`Settings app`, and under the :guilabel:`Companies`
```

section, ensure there is only one company operating the Odoo database. Click :guilabel:`Update Info`
to open a separate page to update company details.

> Should there be multiple companies operating in the database, click :guilabel:`Manage Companies` to

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If there are multiple companies operating in the database, click :guilabel:`Manage Companies` to
```

load a list of companies to select from. Update company information by clicking into the specific
company.

Database administrators should ensure that the :guilabel:`Street...`, :guilabel:`Street2...`,
:guilabel:`City`, :guilabel:`State`, :guilabel:`ZIP`, and :guilabel:`Country` are all updated for
the companies.

> This will ensure accurate tax calculations and smooth end-of-year accounting operations.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This ensures accurate tax calculations and smooth end-of-year accounting operations.
```

.. seealso::
   - :doc:`../../../general/companies`
   - :doc:`../get_started`

Module installation
-------------------

> Next, ensure that the Odoo *AvaTax* module is installed. To do so, navigate to :menuselection:`Apps

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Next, ensure that the Odoo *AvaTax* module is installed. To do so, navigate to the :menuselection:`Apps
```

> application`. In the :guilabel:`Search...` bar, type in `avatax`. Press enter and the following

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
application`. In the :guilabel:`Search...` bar, type in `avatax`, and press :kbd:`Enter`. The following
```

results populate:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 25 25 50

   * - Name
     - Technical name
     - Description
   * - :guilabel:`Avatax`
     - `account_avatax`
     - Default *AvaTax* module. This module adds the base *AvaTax* features for tax calculation.
   * - :guilabel:`Avatax for SO`
     - `account_avatax_sale`
     - Includes the information needed for tax calculation on sales orders in Odoo.
   * - :guilabel:`Avatax for Subscriptions`
     - `account_avatax_sale_subscription`
     - This module includes the features required for tax calculation on subscriptions in Odoo.
   * - :guilabel:`Account Avatax - Ecommerce`
     - `website_sale_account_avatax`
     - Includes tax calculation features for the checkout process on Odoo eCommerce.
   * - :guilabel:`Account AvaTax - Ecommerce - Delivery`
     - `website_sale_delivery_avatax`
     - Includes tax calculation features for the delivery process on Odoo eCommerce.

> Click on the :guilabel:`Install` button on the module labeled :guilabel:`Avatax`: `account_avatax`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Click the :guilabel:`Install` button on the module labeled: :guilabel:`Avatax`: `account_avatax`.
```

> This will install the following modules:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Doing so installs the following modules:
```

- :guilabel:`Avatax`: `account_avatax`
- :guilabel:`Avatax for SO`: `account_avatax_sale`
- :guilabel:`Account Avatax - Ecommerce`: `website_sale_account_avatax`

> Should *AvaTax* be needed for Odoo *Subscriptions* or for delivery tax in Odoo *Ecommerce*, then

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Should *AvaTax* be needed for Odoo *Subscriptions*, or for delivery tax in Odoo *eCommerce*, then
```

install those modules individually by clicking on :guilabel:`Install`.

.. _avatax/credentials:

Odoo AvaTax settings
--------------------

To integrate the *AvaTax* :abbr:`API (application programming interface)` with Odoo, go to

> :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Settings` section. The :guilabel:`AvaTax` fields in

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
:menuselection:`Accounting app --> Configuration --> Settings`. The :guilabel:`AvaTax` fields in
```

> the :guilabel:`Taxes` section is where the *AvaTax* configurations are made and the credentials are

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
the :guilabel:`Taxes` section is where the *AvaTax* configurations are made, and the credentials are
```

Reviewer 3: It might be smart to mention that the user must tick the checkbox for AvaTax in order for the other fields to appear.

Author: This checkbox is actually for the feature to the right of the AvaTax settings.
![2024-05-09_13-12](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/assets/91896312/4bd57e4d-2c06-4242-ace9-396bf0ac84c3)

Author: Update- this is for Odoo 17 that you need to tick the checkbox. I will add that in

entered in.

.. image:: avatax/avatax-configuration-settings.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Configure AvaTax settings

Prerequisites
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> First, select the :guilabel:`Environment` that the company wishes to use AvaTax in. It can either be

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
First, select the :guilabel:`Environment` in which the company wishes to use *AvaTax*. It can either be
```

:guilabel:`Sandbox` or :guilabel:`Production`.

.. seealso::
   For help determining which *AvaTax* environment to use (either :guilabel:`Production` or
   :guilabel:`Sandbox`), visit: `Sandbox vs Production environments
   <https://knowledge.avalara.com/bundle/fzc1692293626742/page/sandbox-vs-production.html>`_.

Credentials
~~~~~~~~~~~

> Now, the credentials can be entered in. The AvaTax :guilabel:`Account ID` will be entered in the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Now, the credentials can be entered in. The *AvaTax* :guilabel:`Account ID` should be entered in the
```

> :guilabel:`API ID` field and the :guilabel:`License Key` will be entered in the :guilabel:`API Key`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`API ID` field, and the :guilabel:`License Key` should be entered in the :guilabel:`API Key`
```

field.

.. important::

>    The :guilabel:`Account ID` can be found by logging into the AvaTax portal (`sandbox

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   The :guilabel:`Account ID` can be found by logging into the *AvaTax* portal (`sandbox
```

   <https://sandbox.admin.avalara.com/>`_ or `production <https://admin.avalara.com/>`_). In the
   upper-right corner, click on the initials of the user and :guilabel:`Account`. The
   :guilabel:`Account ID` is listed first.

   To access the :guilabel:`License Key` see this documentation:
   :ref:`avatax/create_avalara_credentials`.

> For the :guilabel:`Company Code` field enter the Avalara company code for the company being

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For the :guilabel:`Company Code` field, enter the Avalara company code for the company being
```

> configured. Avalara interprets this as `DEFAULT` if it is not set. The :guilabel:`Company Code` can

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
configured. Avalara interprets this as `DEFAULT`, if it is not set. The :guilabel:`Company Code` can
```

be accessed in the Avalara management portal.

> First, log into the AvaTax portal (`sandbox <https://sandbox.admin.avalara.com/>`_ or `production

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
First, log into the *AvaTax* portal (`sandbox <https://sandbox.admin.avalara.com/>`_ or `production
```

<https://admin.avalara.com/>`_). Then, navigate to :menuselection:`Settings --> Manage Companies`.
The :guilabel:`Company Code` value is located in the row of the :guilabel:`Company` in the
:guilabel:`Company Code` column.

.. image:: avatax/company-code.png
   :align: center
   :alt: AvaTax company code highlighted on the company details page.

Transaction options
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> There are two transactional settings in the AvaTax settings in Odoo that can be configured:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There are two transactional settings in the Odoo *AvaTax* settings that can be configured:
```

> :guilabel:`Use UPC Commit` and :guilabel:`Commit Transactions`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Use UPC` and :guilabel:`Commit Transactions`.
```
correct me if I'm wrong, but it appears that these two fields look like my suggestion -- although, I can see how the current formatting of them on the Settings page makes it bit difficult to discern. Feel free to disregard if I'm mistaken with my suggestion.

> If the checkbox next to :guilabel:`Use UPC codes` is ticked then, the transactions will use

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If the checkbox next to :guilabel:`Use UPC` is ticked, the transactions will use
```

Universal Product Codes (UPC), instead of custom defined codes in Avalara. Consult a certified
public accountant (CPA) for specific guidance.

Should the :guilabel:`Commit Transactions` checkbox be ticked, then, the transactions in the Odoo

> database will be committed for reporting in AvaTax.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
database will be committed for reporting in *AvaTax*.
```

Address validation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The *address validation* feature ensures that the most up-to-date address by postal standards is set

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The *Address Validation* feature ensures that the most up-to-date address by postal standards is set
```

on a contact in Odoo. This is important to provide accurate tax calculations for customers.

.. important::
   The :guilabel:`Address Validation` feature only works with partners/customers in North America.

Additionally, tick the checkbox next to the :guilabel:`Address validation` field.

.. important::
   For accurate tax calculations, it is best practice to enter a complete address for the contacts

>    saved in the database. However, AvaTax can still function by implementing a best effort attempt

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   saved in the database. However, *AvaTax* can still function by implementing a best effort attempt
```

   using only the :guilabel:`Country`, :guilabel:`State`, and :guilabel:`Zip code`. These are the
   three minimum required fields.

:guilabel:`Save` the settings to implement the configuration.

.. tip::

>    Manually :guilabel:`Validate` the address by navigating to :menuselection:`Contacts app` and

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   Manually :guilabel:`Validate` the address by navigating to the :menuselection:`Contacts app`, and
```

>    selecting a contact. Now that the AvaTax module have been configured on the database, a

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   selecting a contact. Now that the *AvaTax* module has been configured on the database, a
```

   :guilabel:`Validate` button appears directly below the :guilabel:`Address`.

>    Click :guilabel:`Validate` and a pop-up window appears with a :guilabel:`Validated Address` and

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   Click :guilabel:`Validate`, and a pop-up window appears with a :guilabel:`Validated Address` and
```

   :guilabel:`Original Address` listed. If the :guilabel:`Validated Address` is the correct mailing

>    address for tax purposes click :guilabel:`Save Validated`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   address for tax purposes, click :guilabel:`Save Validated`.
```

   .. image:: avatax/validate-address.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Validate address pop-up window in Odoo with "Save Validated" button and "Validated
            Address" highlighted.

.. warning::

>    All previously entered addresses for contacts in the Odoo database will need to be validated

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   All previously-entered addresses for contacts in the Odoo database will need to be validated
```

   using the manually validate process outlined above. Addresses are not automatically validated if
   they were entered previously. This only occurs upon tax calculation.

Test connection
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> After entering all the above information into the AvaTax setup on Odoo, click :guilabel:`Test

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After entering all the above information into the *AvaTax* setup on Odoo, click :guilabel:`Test
```

> connection`. This will ensure that the :guilabel:`API ID` and :guilabel:`API KEY` are indeed

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
connection`. This ensures the :guilabel:`API ID` and :guilabel:`API KEY` are
```

> correct and a connection is made between Odoo and the AvaTax application programming interface

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
correct, and a connection is made between Odoo and the *AvaTax* application programming interface
```

(API).

Sync parameters
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Upon finishing the configuration and settings of the AvaTax section click the :guilabel:`Sync

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Upon finishing the configuration and settings of the *AvaTax* section, click the :guilabel:`Sync
```

> Parameters` button. This action will synchronize the exemption codes from AvaTax.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Parameters` button. This action synchronizes the exemption codes from *AvaTax*.
```

.. _avatax/fiscal_positions:

Fiscal position
---------------

Next, navigate to :menuselection:`Accounting app --> Configuration --> Accounting: Fiscal

> Positions`. A :guilabel:`Fiscal Position` is listed called :guilabel:`Automatic Tax Mapping

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Positions`. A :guilabel:`Fiscal Position` is listed named, :guilabel:`Automatic Tax Mapping
```

> (AvaTax)`. Click it to open AvaTax's fiscal position configuration page.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
(AvaTax)`. Click it to open *AvaTax*'s fiscal position configuration page.
```

Here, ensure that the :guilabel:`Use AvaTax API` checkbox is ticked.

Optionally, tick the checkbox next to the field labeled: :guilabel:`Detect Automatically`. Should
this option be ticked, then, Odoo will automatically apply this :guilabel:`Fiscal Position` for
transactions in Odoo.

Enabling :guilabel:`Detect Automatically` also makes specific parameters, such as :guilabel:`VAT
required`, :guilabel:`Foreign Tax ID`, :guilabel:`Country Group`, :guilabel:`Country`,

> :guilabel:`Federal States`, or :guilabel:`Zip Range` appear. Filling this parameters will filter the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Federal States`, or :guilabel:`Zip Range` appear. Filling these parameters will filter the
```

:guilabel:`Fiscal Position` usage. Leaving them blank will ensure all calculations are made using
this :guilabel:`Fiscal Position`.

.. warning::

>    Should the :guilabel:`Detect Automatically` checkbox not be ticked, then each customer will need

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   Should the :guilabel:`Detect Automatically` checkbox not be ticked, each customer will need
```

   to have the :guilabel:`Fiscal Position` set on their :guilabel:`Sales and Purchase` tab of the

>    contact record. To do so, navigate to :menuselection:`Sales app --> Order --> Customers` or

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   contact record. To do so, navigate to :menuselection:`Sales app --> Order --> Customers`, or
```

>    :menuselection:`Contacts app --> Contacts`. Then select and customer or contact to set the fiscal

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   :menuselection:`Contacts app --> Contacts`. Then, select a customer or contact to set the fiscal
```

   position on.

>    Navigate to the :guilabel:`Sales and Purchase` tab and down to the section labeled

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   Navigate to the :guilabel:`Sales and Purchase` tab, and down to the section labeled,
```

   :guilabel:`Fiscal Position`. Set the :guilabel:`Fiscal Position` field to the fiscal position
   for the customer.

.. seealso::
   :doc:`fiscal_positions`

AvaTax accounts
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Upon selecting the checkbox option for :guilabel:`Use AvaTax API` a new :guilabel:`AvaTax` tab
appears. Click into this tab to reveal two different settings.

The first setting is the :guilabel:`AvaTax Invoice Account`, while the second is, :guilabel:`AvaTax
Refund Account`. Ensure both accounts are set for smooth end-of-year record keeping. Consult a
certified public accountant (CPA) for specific guidance on setting both accounts.

> Click :guilabel:`Save` to implement the changes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```
With auto-save, I don't believe this line is necessary

Author: This document is written for Odoo 15

Tax mapping
-----------

> The AvaTax integration is available on sale orders and Invoices with the included AvaTax fiscal

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The *AvaTax* integration is available on sale orders and invoices, with the included *AvaTax* fiscal
```

position.

Product category mapping
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Before using the integration, specify an :guilabel:`Avatax Category` on the product categories.

> Navigate to :menuselection:`Inventory --> Configuration --> Product Categories`. Select the product

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Navigate to :menuselection:`Inventory app --> Configuration --> Product Categories`. Select the product
```

category to add the :guilabel:`AvaTax Category` to. In the :guilabel:`AvaTax Category` field, select
a category from the drop-down menu, or :guilabel:`Search More...` to open the complete list of
options.

.. image:: avatax/avatax-category.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Specify AvaTax Category on products.

Product mapping
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> AvaTax Categories may be set on individual products as well. To set the :guilabel:`Avatax Category`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
*AvaTax* Categories may be set on individual products, as well. To set the :guilabel:`Avatax Category`
```

navigate to :menuselection:`Inventory app --> Products --> Products`. Select the product to add the
:guilabel:`Avatax Category` to. Under the :guilabel:`General Information` tab, on the far-right, is

> a selector field labeled: :guilabel:`Avatax Category`. Finally, click the drop-down menu and select

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
a selector field labeled: :guilabel:`Avatax Category`. Finally, click the drop-down menu, and select
```

a category, or :guilabel:`Search More...` to find one that is not listed.

.. note::

>    If both the product and its category have an AvaTax Category set, the product's AvaTax Category

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   If both the product, and its category, have an :guilabel:`AvaTax Category` set, the product's :guilabel:`AvaTax Category`
```

tax calculation is supported with every United Nations charted country, including inter-border
transactions.

.. important::
   *AvaTax* is only available for integration with databases/companies that have locations in the
   United States and Canada. This means the fiscal position/country of a database can only be set to
   the United States or Canada. For more information, reference this documentation:
   :ref:`avatax/fiscal_country`.

*AvaTax* accounts for location-based tax rates for each state, county, and city. It improves
remittance accuracy by paying close attention to laws, rules, jurisdiction boundaries, and special
circumstances (like, tax holidays, and product exemptions). Companies who integrate with *AvaTax*
can maintain control of tax-calculations in-house with this simple :abbr:`API (application
programming interface)` integration.

.. important::
   Some limitations exist in Odoo while using *AvaTax* for tax calculation:

   - *AvaTax* is **not** supported in Odoo's *Point of Sale* app, because a dynamic tax calculation
     model is excessive for transactions within a single delivery address, such as stores or
     restaurants.

> 

Reviewer 2: Can remove empty lines between bullet points of the same level
```suggestion
```

   - *AvaTax* and Odoo use the company address and **not** the warehouse address.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

   - Exercise tax is **not** supported. This includes tobacco/vape taxes, fuel taxes, and other
     specific industries.

.. seealso::
   Avalara's support documents: `About AvaTax
   <https://community.avalara.com/support/s/document-item?language=en_US&bundleId=dqa1657870670369_dqa1657870670369&topicId=About_AvaTax.html&_LANG=enus>`_

Set up on AvaTax
================

To use *AvaTax*, an account with Avalara is required for the setup. If one has not been set up yet,
connect with Avalara to purchase a license: `Avalara: Let's Talk
<https://www.avalara.com/us/en/get-started.html>`_.

.. tip::
   Upon account setup, take note of the *AvaTax* :guilabel:`Account ID`. This will be needed in the
   :ref:`Odoo setup <avatax/credentials>`. In Odoo, this number is the :guilabel:`API ID`.

Then, `create a basic company profile
<https://community.avalara.com/support/s/document-item?bundleId=dqa1657870670369_dqa1657870670369&topicId=Create_a_Basic_company_profile.html&_LANG=enus>`_.

Create basic company profile
----------------------------

Collect essential business details for the next step: locations where tax is collected,

> products/services sold (and their sales locations), and customer tax exemptions, if applicable. Follow
> the Avalara documentation for creating a basic company profile:

Reviewer 2: Line over 100 chars
```suggestion
products/services sold (and their sales locations), and customer tax exemptions, if applicable.
Follow the Avalara documentation for creating a basic company profile:
```

   <https://knowledge.avalara.com/bundle/fzc1692293626742/page/sandbox-vs-production.html>`_.

Log in to create the :guilabel:`License Key`. Go to :menuselection:`Settings --> License and API
Keys`. Click :guilabel:`Generate License Key`.

.. note::
   A warning appears stating: `If your business app is connected to Avalara solutions, the
   connection will be broken until you update the app with the new license key. This action cannot
   be undone.`

   Generating a new license key breaks the connection with existing business apps using the *AvaTax*
   integration. Make sure to update these apps with the new license key.

If this will be the first :abbr:`API (application programming interface)` integration being made
with *AvaTax* and Odoo, then click :guilabel:`Generate license key`.

If this is an additional license key, ensure the previous connection can be broken. There is
**only** one license key associated with each of the Avalara sandbox and production accounts.

.. important::
   Copy this key to a safe place. It is **strongly encouraged** to backup the license key for future
   reference. This key cannot be retrieved after leaving this screen.

> Odoo Configuration

Reviewer 2: Sentence case this heading please :)
```suggestion
Odoo configuration
```
